client/components/segmented-control/README.md, before:

Segmented Control
===

Segmented Control manipulates the content shown following an exclusive or “either/or” pattern.

## Usage

It can be utilized via two different techniques: **child components** or an **options array**. These techniques are available because certain use cases prefer the "selection" logic to be built into `SegmentedControl`, while others prefer to explicitly define that logic elsewhere.

### Child components

The children technique is appropriate when you'd like to define the "selection" logic at the same point where `<SegmentedControl>` is implemented.

A good example for this case is navigation. Sometimes the option that is selected is defined by the route, other times it's a state value, external prop, etc.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import SegmentedControl from 'components/segmented-control';
import ControlItem from 'components/segmented-control/item';

export default class extends React.Component {
	// ...

	render() {
		return (
			<SegmentedControl>
				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'all' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'all' ) }
				>
					All
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'unread' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'unread' ) }
				>
					Unread
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'comments' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'comments' ) }
				>
					Comments
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'follows' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'follows' ) }
				>
					Follows
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'likes' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'likes' ) }
				>
					Likes
				</ControlItem>
			</SegmentedControl>
		);
	},

	handleFilterClick: function( value ) {
		return function() {

			// ... (track analytics, add to state, etc.)

			this.setState( {
				selected: value
				// ...
			} );
		}.bind( this );
	}
}
```

The key here is that it's up to the parent component to explicitly define things such as the selected item, potential `onClick` callbacks, etc.

#### Props

##### Segmented Control

Name | Type | Default | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`className` | `string` | `0` | Class(es) applied to `.segmented-control`
`style` | `string` | `0` | Inline styles applied to the main element
`compact` | `bool` | `false` | Decreases the size

##### Control Item

Name | Type | Default | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`selected`* | `bool` | `false` | Determines the selected item
`path` | `string` | `null` | URL to navigate to when item is clicked
`title` | `string` | `null` | Title to show when hovering over item
`onClick` |  | `null` | Callback applied when `ControlItem` is clicked

### Options array

`SegmentedControl` can also be used by passing in an `options` array as a prop. This technique is great for situations where you don't want to explicitly define things like what happens when an item is clicked or which item is currently selected, etc.

A good example for this case is a form element. You don't want to have to write the logic for updating the component when a new selection is made, but you might want to hook into certain events like: when a new selection is made, what was the option?

**NOTE**: _there is still more work here in order to be fully functional as a form element. This is currently experimental._

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import SegmentedControl from 'components/segmented-control';

var options = [
	{ value: 'all', label: 'All' },
	{ value: 'unread', label: 'Unread' },
	{ value: 'comments', label: 'Comments' },
	{ value: 'follows', label: 'Follows' },
	{ value: 'likes', label: 'Likes' }
];

export default class extends React.Component {
	// ...

	handleOnSelect = ( option ) => {
		console.log( 'selected option:', option ); // full object of selected option
	}

	render() {
		return (
			<SegmentedControl options={ options } onSelect={ this.handleOnSelect } />
		);
	},
}
```

Note that all the "selection" logic will be applied in `SegmentedControl` itself using a simple `selected` value comparison in state. It will update itself when an option has been clicked.

#### Props

Name | Type | Default | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`options`* | `array` | `null` | The main data set for rendering options
`initialSelected` | `string` | `null` | Represents the initial selected option's `value`
`onSelect` |  | `null` | Callback whenever a new item has been clicked

##### `options` prop example

```js
var options = [
	{
		value: // *required* - (string) tracked by component
		label: // *required* - (string) displayed to user
		path: // optional - (string) URL to navigate when clicked
	},
	// ...
];
```

### General guidelines

* There are two states: selected and non-selected. There must always be only one selected state, no more, no less.
* The primary style is preferred. Use your best judgement if you want to use the non-primary style to remove visual conflict with another primary elements in the view.
* Text should be concise and specific. Use no more than two words.
* A default selection is required. The default selection is the first option in the segmented control.

## Related components

* To group buttons together, use the [ButtonGroup](./button-group) component.
* To navigate between multiple pages of items, use the [Pagination](./pagination) component.
* To alternate among related views within the same context with _tabs_, use the [SectionNav](./section-nav) component.

Commit message:

Component: Modularize/simplify SegmentedControl
This change splits off <SegmentedControl>'s two distinct modes into two separate components: <SegmentedControl> and <SimplifiedSegmentedControl>. The former uses child components while the latter uses an array of options objects.

This change also greatly simplifies accessibility handling by removing custom keydown event handling. It now defers to the default browser behavior for handling element focus.

client/components/segmented-control/README.md, after:

<!-- @format -->

# Segmented Control

Segmented Control manipulates the content shown following an exclusive or “either/or” pattern.

## Usage

It can be utilized via two different techniques: **child components** or an **options array**. These techniques are available because certain use cases prefer the "selection" logic to be built into `SegmentedControl`, while others prefer to explicitly define that logic elsewhere.

### Child components

The children technique is appropriate when you'd like to define the "selection" logic at the same point where `<SegmentedControl>` is implemented.

A good example for this case is navigation. Sometimes the option that is selected is defined by the route, other times it's a state value, external prop, etc.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import SegmentedControl from 'components/segmented-control';
import ControlItem from 'components/segmented-control/item';

export default class extends React.Component {
	// ...

	render() {
		return (
			<SegmentedControl>
				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'all' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'all' ) }
				>
					All
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'unread' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'unread' ) }
				>
					Unread
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'comments' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'comments' ) }
				>
					Comments
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'follows' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'follows' ) }
				>
					Follows
				</ControlItem>

				<ControlItem
					selected={ this.state.selected === 'likes' }
					onClick={ this.handleFilterClick( 'likes' ) }
				>
					Likes
				</ControlItem>
			</SegmentedControl>
		);
	},

	handleFilterClick: function( value ) {
		return function() {

			// ... (track analytics, add to state, etc.)

			this.setState( {
				selected: value
				// ...
			} );
		}.bind( this );
	}
}
```

The key here is that it's up to the parent component to explicitly define things such as the selected item, potential `onClick` callbacks, etc.

#### Props

##### Segmented Control

| Name        | Type     | Default | Description                               |
| ----------- | -------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `className` | `string` | `0`     | Class(es) applied to `.segmented-control` |
| `style`     | `string` | `0`     | Inline styles applied to the main element |
| `compact`   | `bool`   | `false` | Decreases the size                        |

##### Control Item

| Name         | Type     | Default | Description                                    |
| ------------ | -------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `selected`\* | `bool`   | `false` | Determines the selected item                   |
| `path`       | `string` | `null`  | URL to navigate to when item is clicked        |
| `title`      | `string` | `null`  | Title to show when hovering over item          |
| `onClick`    |          | `null`  | Callback applied when `ControlItem` is clicked |

### Options array

We also provide `SimplifiedSegmentedControl` which uses an `options` array as a prop. This technique is great for situations where you don't want to explicitly define things like what happens when an item is clicked or which item is currently selected, etc.

A good example for this case is a form element. You don't want to have to write the logic for updating the component when a new selection is made, but you might want to hook into certain events like: when a new selection is made, what was the option?

**NOTE**: _there is still more work here in order to be fully functional as a form element. This is currently experimental._

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import SimplifiedSegmentedControl from 'components/segmented-control/simplified';

var options = [
	{ value: 'all', label: 'All' },
	{ value: 'unread', label: 'Unread' },
	{ value: 'comments', label: 'Comments' },
	{ value: 'follows', label: 'Follows' },
	{ value: 'likes', label: 'Likes' }
];

export default class extends React.Component {
	// ...

	handleOnSelect = ( option ) => {
		console.log( 'selected option:', option ); // full object of selected option
	}

	render() {
		return (
			<SimplifiedSegmentedControl options={ options } onSelect={ this.handleOnSelect } />
		);
	},
}
```

Note that all the "selection" logic will be applied in `SimplifiedSegmentedControl` itself using a simple `selected` value comparison in state. It will update itself when an option has been clicked.

#### Props

| Name              | Type     | Default | Description                                      |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `options`\*       | `array`  | `null`  | The main data set for rendering options          |
| `initialSelected` | `string` | `null`  | Represents the initial selected option's `value` |
| `onSelect`        |          | `null`  | Callback whenever a new item has been clicked    |

##### `options` prop example

```js
var options = [
	{
		value: // *required* - (string) tracked by component
		label: // *required* - (string) displayed to user
		path: // optional - (string) URL to navigate when clicked
	},
	// ...
];
```

### General guidelines

- There are two states: selected and non-selected. There must always be only one selected state, no more, no less.
- The primary style is preferred. Use your best judgement if you want to use the non-primary style to remove visual conflict with another primary elements in the view.
- Text should be concise and specific. Use no more than two words.
- A default selection is required. The default selection is the first option in the segmented control.

## Related components

- To group buttons together, use the [ButtonGroup](./button-group) component.
- To navigate between multiple pages of items, use the [Pagination](./pagination) component.
- To alternate among related views within the same context with _tabs_, use the [SectionNav](./section-nav) component.
